# R3D5 Meeting 12-19-16

## Introduction

We decided that for our first activity, we would look for a website that already have Information Security challenges to decrease the amount of setup time needed. We found [https://backdoor.sdslabs.co](this) website which had a list of challenges, so we decided to go with the first one [https://backdoor.sdslabs.co/challenges/2013-BIN-50](here). The rest of this writeup will be how we chose to work through this exercise.

## Problem Introduction

The challenge provides a file, and its details are as follows:

```
One day, after getting tired of being made fun of by all the other hackers, he decided to finally take a look at BASH.
His first thoughts were 'Bash? Bash Windows? Oh those violent script kiddies!'. After finishing hundreds of online tutorials,
he accidentally (obviously)found a flag. His next status update was ' The script kiddies will never be able to get the flag from this password protected binary.
How dare he call you and us 'script kiddies'?! Take him down.

Here is the file . For 32bit users - file
The flag is SHA-256 of the MD-5 hash obtained.
```

## File Type Determination

So the first thing we did was download the only file provided "binaary50". We immediately noticed that the file did not have an extension and attempted to open it with a text editor. It was clear that the file was not a text file as plenty of random ASCII character were littered throughout the file.

We can run the following command

`$ strings binaary50`

and filter the unrelated results by hand to get

> * Password is Advicemallard
> * Password is Butter
> * Password is Hoobastank
> * Password is Darth
> * Password is Jedimaster
> * Password is Masternamer
> * Password is Morpheus
> * Password is Neutron
> * Password is Coyote
> * Password is Tweety
> * Nothing to see here.
> * Please provide the password

So we can see that these strings appear to be user facing, as the string "Please provide the password" looks like a prompt. Let's try and execute the program and see what happens. Running

`$ ./binaary50`

yields the following output "Please provide the password", so we guessed correctly. This is an executable program, but that begs the question of "what kind of executable"? So we can try to figure that out using the following program

`$ file binaary50`

Which returns
>binaary50: ELF 64-bit LSB  executable, x86-64, version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked (uses shared libs), for GNU/Linux 2.6.24, BuildID[sha1]=745172a5d855872a241d62ddf8a40bcad4bb07bc, not stripped

Showing us that we could have used the program file to help us determine our "binaary50"'s file type

## Planning

At this point we should discuss the paths we could take, as we now believe that the key we are looking for will be provided by the binaary50 program if provided with the appropriate password.

1. brute force the executable by providing all possible passwords
2. figure out what password the executable expects
3. disregard what password the executable expects and try to get the key by moving to the correct line of execution

We believe that the first path is not the correct solution, as its purely subject to our amount of time and CPU power available. Therefore we will look to solve the problem by using both paths 2 and 3 through reverse engineering.

## Reverse Engineering
