# Challenges for Thursday December 21, 2016
## Secret Arena
For this challenge you have to recognize that we are getting redirected to a page that is passed in via the url. If you try to access the challenge area you are prompted to enter a user name and password. If you try and are denied then you greeted with an access denied page. Looking at the url we can see that we are being sent to a directory called secure. This means the flag resides in a directory called secure. Also we can recognize that htaccess works by adding a .htaccess file to secure a directory. Thus if we pass in page=secure/.htaccess we get the .htaccess file which contains the username and password hash for access. Running the hash through something like John the ripper we get the password as blood. Yay!

## File Reader
This challenge is fairly straight forward. We are directed to a page which is just a file directory browser. One page we can go is called viewer.php which allows you to search and view the actual file itself. Trying to find a file called flag.php wont allow you to get the file. However if you view the actual viewer.php, you can see that the viewer is using regex to filter out `../` but it just shortens it to `./`. Thus if you go to viewer.php page and enter `.../flag.php` then you will get the flag yay!

## browser
For this challenge we are directed to a page where the flag is placed in plain text. However we can only see the flag if we are using a specific browser developed by a company named SDSLabs. The browser is internal however. Ouch! We some how need to spoof the browser. Enter curl! Curl has a parameter to specify a user agent. Thus enter in your terminal `curl -A "SDSLabs" http://hack.bckdr.in/BRWSR/` and you will get the flag.

## authorized persons only
This challenge is very easy. Going to the link we get an unauthorized message. The hint on the page tells us to look at the cookie. If you inspect the cookie somehow (you can use js by entering `document.cookie`) you will see admin=0. Great! Modify the cookie somehow (again you can use js enter in the console: `admin=1`) and set admin to 1. Refresh the page and yay! you got the flag.

## Simple cipher
This one, although it says easy, is slightly difficult. It uses a keyed caesar with the key as SDSLabs. You can determine this by first trying basic caesar cipher shift, which doesnt work. Then try a keyed version. One of the online encryption cracker I tried couldn't get the key but did determine that the key was of length 7. Thus reading the instructions, and because the challenge was easy, the key was given to us. 
